Robotics, design, construction, and use of machines (robots) to perform tasks done traditionally by human beings. Robots are widely used in such industries as automobile manufacture to perform simple repetitive tasks, and in industries where work must be performed in environments hazardous to humans. Many aspects of robotics involve artificial intelligence; robots may be equipped with the equivalent of human senses such as vision, touch, and the ability to sense temperature. Some are even capable of simple decision making, and current robotics research is geared toward devising robots with a degree of self-sufficiency that will permit mobility and decision-making in an unstructured environment. Today’s industrial robots do not resemble human beings; a robot in human form is called an android. Compared to other artifacts with single functions, robots are expected to perform a variety of tasks, among which communication has an important role. A typical example is a humanoid robot, the building of which has been regarded as the final target of robotics for many years, especially in Japan where many robotics researchers have been struggling with making humanoid robots work in our society. Regardless of such efforts, no definition of humanoid robots exists since “robot” itself has no clear definition. From the viewpoint of biology, human beings can be discriminated from other species by three distinctive features or capabilities. They are biped walking, use instrumentation, and have the invention/use of language. The first two capabilities have been attacked by robotics researchers as challenges in locomotion and manipulation that are the main issues in robotics. The third capability has not been considered as within robotics but linguistics. It seems far away from robotics. However, recent progress of research activities developed by the idea of “embodiment” in behavior-based robotics proposed by Rod Brooks at the MIT AI laboratory in the late 1980s has caused more conceptual issues such as body scheme, body image, self, consciousness, theory of mind, communication, and the emergence of language. Although these issues have been attacked in the existing disciplines such as brain science, neuroscience, cognitive science, and developmental psychology, robotics may project a new light on understanding these issues by constructing artifacts similar to us. Thus, robotics covers a broad range of disciplines; therefore it seems very difficult to find comprehensive textbooks to understand the area. Some textbooks focus on the fundamental issues on how to build robots while others focus on a limited area in robotics such as kinematics, dynamics, control, vision, or planning. Among them, Russell and Norvig's book from 1995 entitled Artificial Intelligence—A Modern Approach gave a good introduction to robotics from the viewpoint of AI. Pfeifer and Scheier's book from 1999 entitled Understanding Intelligence shows a constructive approach to understanding intelligence with a variety of robots from the viewpoint of embodied cognitive science. Readers can access resources on the recent activities of robotics around the world through the Web.